\documentclass[10pt]{article}
\usepackage{xspace}
\setlength{\topmargin}{-0.5in}
\setlength{\oddsidemargin}{0.0in}
\setlength{\evensidemargin}{0.0in}
\setlength{\textheight}{9in}
\setlength{\textwidth}{6.5in}

\renewcommand{\thepage}{p. \arabic{page}}

\newcommand{\bing}{{\bf BING!} }
\newcommand{\goto}[1]{\bing \vskip 12pt \section*{{\em{#1}}}}
\newcommand{\ps}{ plus Spehn\xspace}


%%%
%%%  FROB THESE BEFORE THE START OF THE MEETING 
\newcommand{\skinner}{Rachel Skye, President and Skinner}
\newcommand{\onseck}{Carissa Skye, Pseudo-Onseck}
\newcommand{\meetingdate}{Friday, August 31, 2016}
%%%


\begin{document}

\begin{center}

MIT Science Fiction Society

84 Massachusetts Avenue

Cambridge, MA 02139

\vspace{12pt}

MITSFS Meeting Minutes

\meetingdate
64.8 SST

\end{center}

\vspace{18pt}

\setlength{\parskip}{6pt}

\noindent
MITSFS meeting called to order, 61.2 Ksec SST,
\skinner, presiding; \psuedo-onseck, recording.

Minutes read.

\bing

\goto{Committee Reports}
None

\goto{Old Business}
None

\goto{New Business}
(RS) Prepping for the activites midway on friday. At 2:30. What time do we have to be there?
(LAM) Have to check in at least half an hour before it starts. Can be up to an hour early
(RS) Meet in the library at 1:30. Anyone who wants to come should. I and Carissa Skye (LHE) will be here.
(CS) We'll send out an email recruiting.
(RS) To do: put up the banner, get emails to put on bananna-frosh-2016
(LAM) Maybe I'll atually finish the banner. Google has sewing machines, I can take it in to work.

General discussion of who's on which committees and the scheduling of work parties for them.

Skinner will get flyers approved flyers tonight, with a few dates for general work parties. Specific committee parties TBA.

Viewing and approving of the flyer design. 

(RS) There's movie viewings on the old flyer; how did we do this?
(LAM) SilverComm.
(RS) May email them, then.

Discussion of the MysterMail items which the library has been recieving from Ariel. Items identified. 

Discussion: One-Year Memberships will be 5 dollars until classes start. Achieve this by entering 'no' somewhere during the payment process.

Discussion: Updating poster in the infinite. Poster found in Damnation Alley. Fear that it's too big for our cabinet. But it's cool.
 	    Skinner will check whether it fits. Should be able to borrow Assassin's Guild poster key. LAM has access to it.

Discussion: Finances and endowment. Funding from finboard has greatly decreased due to their recent financial troubles. Believe that 
	    we'll be largely unaffected, but book-buying this summer was delayed while that was confirmed. New books will be ordered this week.

Discussion: Open house, meeting on Friday. Long-term business will be brought up then.

(LAM) Putting a TrojanComm meeting on the schedule would be good
(RS) Let me know when you're available for that; you can run it and teach me.
(LAM) Will do.

Discussion: Most rites and manual are severely outdated. RS and PW will meet and discuss. 

(PW) I may rewrite the TheftComm software and replace the poster. It seems ineffective at getting keyholders to show up on time, so it maybe
     should be restructured in the meantime. I hope to make software work with the door sensor. Perhaps simplify the canceling/deleting of 
     hours. Perhaps structure incentives to improve hour attendance.
(LAM) It is traditionally difficult for the new Star Chamber to understand the exceptions and other long-term things. That should be addressed.
(PW) What should we do with keyholders who don't show up to hours? We could get rid of them, but what's the point? We should figure this out
     so I can write the software.

Discussion: PW and the available starchamber, requiring Skinner (RS), will have meetings to discuss software and TheftComm structure.

(RS) Who has the twitter account?
(LAM) I have the password.
(RS) What does it do?
(LAM) She usually tweets the authors and such. You can look at it without an account.
(PW) What if we update the locker so it has the right password?
(LAM) Wow that would make sense. We should do that.

Discussion: Committees, general unnecessary details. LAM will rewrite MommyComm rites.

\goto{Future Business}
(RS) All the stuff I said I'm gonna do on Friday. Ignore that.
(PW) In the future there will be more books.
(HL) And less space.

Discussion: Getting space if/when they open the warehouse to student spaces. May contact chancellor.

Discussion: Get back in touch the the MIT library system. They got a science fiction grant. CS will take. Technology Reviews has a short
	    story collection we may be able to sweet-talk them (not the libraries) into donating.

(PW) I motion to turn all the books into bannanas
(RS) They'll be readable bannanas

Motion passed, 6.5 - 5 - 4 + Stehn (Sehn? Spehn? I forget the spelling)

(JHS) We should let people who give us an exorbitant amount of money leave their ashes in the library in a book-shaped urn.

\bing
\noindent
Meeting adjourned, 66.6 Ksec SST.

\vspace{18pt}

\centerline{Respectfully submitted,}
\centerline{\onseck}

\end{document}
